---
layout: post
title: CS193P Recap - Lecture 2
subtitle: My notes from taking Stanford's CS193P Course
image: /img/2020-04-01-ios-camera/iphone_camera.jpeg
---

# Lecture 2: MVC's

MVC (Model-View-Controller) is the design paradigm for iOS programming.

MVC is breaking up your objects into three separate camps and managing the communication between the camps:

- Model: What your application is (but not how it is displayed) - The WHAT of your app
- Controller: How your Model is presented to the user (UI Logic)
- View: Your Controller's minions (Very generic.. uilabels, buttons etc)

Communication notes:

- The controller can freely talk to the model because it has to. Controllers job is to present WHAT to the VIEW.

- The controller can also directly talk to the View (outlet)

- The model and View should never talk to eachother. The model is UIView independent. The view has no idea what the what is.

- The view CAN speak to the controller sort of (.. The communication is 'blind' and structured. The View components don't know anything about a view controller. When the view talks to the controller, it doesn't know that it's a controller. The view blindly talks to the controller in the following ways:

  - Target-Action

  - Delegate Methods (should, will, did.. )

  - Data source methods (data at, count..) Just a type of delegate

    

- The model can sort of communicate with the controller via 'radio station' model. It can use notify the controller that new info is available, which prompts the controller to query it. (Notification, KVO) \

When designing a model, start by listing the the public api methods.

- Classes get a free init with no arguments with all properties of the class are already initialized.
- Structs also get a free initializer in the same way. You can also initialize all the the properties of a struct without having an explicit init method.

```swift
for identifier in 0..<5{
  print("This is how you do for loops")
}
```

- When you assign a struct to a variable, it makes a copy.