---
layout: post
title: CS193P Recap - Lecture 1
subtitle: My notes from taking Stanford's CS193P Course
image: /img/2020-04-01-ios-camera/iphone_camera.jpeg
---

After doing plenty of infrastructure work on my past internships over the previous four years, I came to the realization that the work I do often doesn't include as much 'core development' as I would like. While I obviously did some coding, I feel like much of my work is based on having a sound understanding of cloud infrastructure. A common theme of my past internship work:

- Debugging hardware
- Jenkins/Teamcity pipelines (CI/CD)
- Monitoring with tools like grafana, sensu, kibana..
- Architecting solutions with containers. (Docker, Kubernetes..)

While all of these are important to me and establish my interest in SRE/DevOps, I came to the realization that I don't do enough software development. While this isn't the end of the world, it's definitely something that I really enjoy doing and want to stay sharp with since I believe that it will help me professionally in the long run. 

Looking at my github history, it looks like I pushed my first iOS related repo on January 29th, when I began exploring iOS App development with Swift. Since then, I've found myself constantly being self driven by the desire to learn more and the goal of one day publishing a useful app to the app store. While I've had plenty of time to hack together little apps, I realized that my code structure was lacking and my overal understanding of iOS architecture and good design principles was lacking. In an attempt to fix that, I decided to supplement my learning by taking CS193P - Developing Apps for iOS. This is a Stanford coruse that is freely available to the public. Upon seeing some reviews and previewing the course, it began clear that it's a solid tool to solidify my iOS App development understanding. Over the next few weeks, I'll be blogging summaries for each lecture and project that the course offers. Hopefully, when I reach the end, I'll be able to look back at everything and be able to have a better understanding of iOS App Architecture and good app design.

This post is my summary on Lecture 1 - which you can watch [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=71pyOB4TPRE).

# Lecture 1: Introduction to iOS 11, Xcode 9 and Swift 4

- iOS programming is very object oriented.
- Having previous experience with OOD is important.
- iOS is UNIX (It's written in C)

Layers of iOS:

- **Cocoa Touch:** Buttons, SLiders, Map Kit, Web View, etc..

- **Media:** Core Audio, OpenAL, PDF, JPEG, Core Animation, etc...

- **Core Services:** OO Layer with things like File Access, SQLite, Core Location etc..

- **Core OS:** OSX Kernel, BSD, Sockets, Security, Power Management, Filesystem etc..

This course focuses mostly on the Cocoa Touch Layer and Core Services Layer. All programming in this course is done is Swift 4.

This course focusses on MVC (Model-View-Controller).

This lecture introduces the concentration game. It's a game with a bunch of matching cards that are originally face down. You need to try and find all the matching cards..

The rest of the lecture talks about the following:

- Setting up an xcode project
- basic Xcode features
- basics of View Controllers
- basic Storyboard example
- browsing the documentation
- Linking Storyboard object to the view controller for processing.
- Debugging connections from storyboard
- Initializing instance variables/properties
- Property observers (didSet)
- Copying/pasting stuff is bad
- Grouping UI elements with object collections. (Array of UIButtons)
- Use let for constants, var for variables.
- Intro to optionals.. (if let)

Swift is good at inferencing types, so you often don't need to specify the type of variable since it can be inferred.

